Add docs for SHOW DEFAULT SESSION VARIABLES FOR ROLE (#18422)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v24.1/show-default-session-variables-for-role.md

---
title: SHOW DEFAULT SESSION VARIABLES FOR ROLE
summary: The SHOW DEFAULT SESSION VARIABLES FOR ROLE statement lists the default values for session variables applied to a given user.
keywords: reflection
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

> The `SHOW DEFAULT SESSION VARIABLES FOR ROLE` [statement]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/sql-statements.md %}) lists the values for updated [session variables]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-vars.md %}) that are applied to a given [user/role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles).

Author: Fixed to:

1. say "user or role"
2. add the statement to the SQL statements page - will re-request review as well

> It only shows the values of session variables that are changed from the defaults. When no session variables have been changed from the defaults for a given role, the statement [returns no values](#output-when-no-session-variables-have-been-changed).

Author: Updated to that language, thank you!

## Synopsis

<div>

> {% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/show_default_session_variables_for_role.html %}

Author: Dang you're right!

this appears to be what they are called in the SQL parser: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/pkg/sql/parser/sql.y#L1038 

in the past we had a method for changing these diagrams locally but now they are automatically generated by an external process.  I think I can tweak it with a PR against `cockroachdb/cockroach/pkg/cmd/docgen/diagrams.go`

Have filed a separate issue to address this since it will take some time to get a PR into CockroachDB: https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-10114

</div>

## Parameters

Parameter | Description
----------|------------

> `FOR {role_or_group_or_user}` | The [user/group/role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) whose updated [session variables]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/session-variables.md %}) should be displayed.

Author: Fixed, thanks

`FOR ROLE ALL` | Denotes that changes to default [session variables]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/session-variables.md %}) across all [roles]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) should be displayed.

> `FOR USER ALL` | Synonym for `FOR ROLE ALL`.

Author: Fixed

## Response

Column | Description
------|------------
`session_variables` | The name of the [session variable]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/session-variables.md %}) that has had its default value changed.
`default_values` | The updated value of the [session variable]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/session-variables.md %}).
`database` | The [database]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-databases.md %}) where the change to the session variable will be applied.
`inherited_globally` | Whether the change to the variable's value is applied to all users. For more information, see [`ALTER ROLE ALL`]({% link {{page.version.version}}/alter-role.md%}#set-default-session-variable-values-for-all-users).

## Required Privileges

> The [user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles) issuing this statement must have at least one of the following [privileges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#managing-privileges):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#sql-users) issuing this statement must have at least one of the following [privileges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#privileges):
```

Author: Fixed
